there is a must read article or a series
of articles in the LA Times this week if
you haven't read this this this is
Pulitzer material for sure and is a
series of articles on used cars and what
better place to write that than here in
Los Angeles where we really have an
effective public transportation system
and everyone drives but help me here
Richard but the gist of it is if the
focus is on something called buy here
pay here Lots these where people go in
they look at a car and in some cases
more I'll use this as an example
it's a Mitsubishi with a hundred
thousand miles on it and if you have
crappy credit this dealership will offer
you a loan on this car at about Oh 30
percent interest they'll design a
monthly schedule for you to pay on that
car the payments could be around $500 a
month or $399 a month on a Mitsubishi
with say a hundred thousand miles on it
and let you drive off with that car and
you pay them each month the moment you
default on one of those payments they
entice you back to the lot and they say
we're going to refinance you are your
loan on this car since you can't afford
it and when you drive back in they take
your car throw you out and make you walk
home and then they sell that car again
and again and again cars are being sold
four and five times like this but they
are essentially loans mortgage well not
mortgages their car loans designed for
people who can't afford them these cars
and then they are deprived of the
transportation that they were so
provided for by these lots at the same
time so it's another one it's like
mortgage-backed securities but with with
cars is that right well kind of yeah I
mean I think of it as a big system
there's a there's a highly technical
term for people who are involved in that
this business they're referred to as
assholes and um I don't want to get you
know - but the deal is
his head like asshole Motors down on
Wilshire yes but Gus Camacho loved that
actually Gus Camacho is a real data car
over there the other day you know there
was an old Tex Mex song if you got the
De Niro I've got the Camaro you know and
they but here's the deal this is very
closely related to you know with the
payday loan industry where if you think
of it as a big system they marginalize
certain people it make it difficult for
them to get credit and then they refer
to them the bankers will refer to them
as the unbanked and we want to help the
unbanked but with these like horrible
loans that rip them off they trap them
in a cycle of debt they exploit them
they've done studies that show that
these kinds of auto loans for example
these kinds of auto loans discriminate
very heavily against black people black
people pay much higher interest rates
and minorities of all races and
ethnicities pay much higher interest
rates than white males or you know white
people in general so there's a racist
element to this flat-out in the whole
process and there's a huge role for the
big banks in this you know these guys
they're underwritten by JP Morgan Chase
or Wells Fargo or Bank of America so
what you have is a nice fat system where
JPMorgan Chase let's say remember there
was a period these banks were getting 0%
loans from the Fed or close to zero
sometimes they get you know 1% 2% 3%
well it has cracks me up to that if you
have allegedly if you have good credit
as a consumer you qualify for a 0% loan
no money down come and get this new
Dodge truck and you walk away with like
a $300 payment on a brand new car right
but that's what we're sort of bombarded
with every day day in a day out but the
reality is is that very few people have
that perfect credit score to get those
rates and but these are people who are
who need basic transportation to get to
their jobs that they're losing and
they're being they're given a car they
can't afford that is equipped with a
LoJack on it by the dealership so they
can know where you are they'll come to
your office
and take the car
when it'll come to where you work and
just take it out of the parking lot and
bear in mind this this system is being
funded by the same bankers in the same
economic interests who are making sure
that we cut spending on public
transportation right so that they have
to get a car so it's as very neat a
system of slavery it's gotten so bad
there are absolutely ruthless people
they were exploiting soldiers families
in particular so they were nestling or
nesting whatever you want to say around
military bases in this country so that
they you know soldiers families or
active-duty soldiers would go out and be
ripped off by these people in exactly
this way because we so tragically
underpay our military in this country
because we can't afford it because we
have to give tax breaks to hedge fund
managers so these people then exploit
the same the same people by the way then
exploit the military and their families
so much so that Holly Petraeus David
Petraeus his wife made it a personal
issue for her to go after payday loan an
auto loan and these people who were
exploiting military families because she
was so outraged by this so it's it's
again if you think of it as a big system
if you think of it as you've got these
banks at the top holding all the
resources deciding who gets loans at
what rate holding back the money
sometimes just making money off Treasury
Department you know and you know tea
bills and so on and then then creating
this system of sort of nearly like
indentured servitude basically where
these people have to work for their
debts and if they don't the car gets
resold and resold and resold with no no
accountability for it and they're
outraged that there would be something
like a Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau and in fact 60 senators including
our own very liberal Barbara Boxer here
in California signed a letter saying
that these auto dealers should be exempt
from